Project proposal
University Network Implementation Using Cisco

1.0 Purpose
The entire world is moving towards the digital era. The educational institution plays
an important role in this digitalization; hence the campus should adapt to digital
means of networking as well and become a “digital campus”. Going wireless plays
an important role in this digitalization. The wireless network makes the connection
easy with a reduction in the use of wires or cables. A wired connection makes it
difficult to keep track of all the devices and to manage the cable connection, which is
not only chaotic but also challenging to handle.
Campus networking via wireless connection becomes an important part of campus
life and provides the main way for teachers and students to access educational
resources, which gives an important platform to exchange information. As laptops
and intelligent terminals are widely used, demand for access to information anytime
and anywhere has become more and more urgent, but traditional cable networks
cannot meet this requirement. Then wireless network construction becomes
necessary and essential. The wireless network is one of the important components
of a digital campus and wisdom campus. It provides an efficient way to explore the
internet with a mobile terminal for teachers and students regardless of cables and
places. This is an important mark of the modern campus as a supplement of a cable
network. With the development of network and communication technology, cable
networks on a university campus bring much convenience for teaching and research
work. But for mobility and flexibility, it has obvious shortcomings. A wireless network
can overcome these drawbacks and has been applied to the university campus.
2.0 University Network Topology
Computer networks have a significant impact on the working of an organization.
Universities depend on the proper functioning and analysis of their networks for
education, administration, communication, e-library, automation, etc. An efficient
network is essential to facilitate the systematic and cost-efficient transfer of
information in an organization in the form of messages, files, and resources. The
project provides insights into various concepts such as topology design, IP address

CISCO PACKET TRACER PROJECT PROPOSAL ALI AHMAD KHAN
configuration, and how to send information in the form of packets to the wireless
networks of different areas of a University.
The aim of this project is to design the topology of the university network using the
software Cisco Packet Tracer with the implementation of wireless networking
systems. This university network consists of the following devices:

1) Router
2) Switches
3) Email server
4) DNS server
5) WEB server
6) Wireless Device
7) PCs
8) Laptops
9) Smartphones
4.0 Project Scope
The major aim of this project is to show the wireless connectivity that is used in
universities to make the network efficient and mobile at the same time. Mobility is the
major concentration of this project. In order to provide equal functionality to all the
users (University staff and students), we have added DNS, Email, and HTTP servers
for the maximum utilization of resources.
Hence the campus network provides different services such as connecting the user
to the internet, data sharing among users (students, teachers, and different
university members), accessing different web services for different functionalities, so
it needs wireless networking for smooth processing.

3.0 The design includes the following parts of
the University:

 Hostel Blocks: Girls Block and Boys Block
 Academic Blocks: Block A, Block B, Block C and Block D
 LAB, S: Lab 1, Lab 2, Lab 3.
 Library
 IT Consulting
 Account Offices
